Okay,
we are live.
We're going to do a little bit of
research now.
Nothing too crazy.
Yeah. The one other thing that was kind
of nice was uh Rayson tweeted out the
sponsorship.
Where is he?
Where did Rayon go?
There it is.
I'm pretty happy about this.
Okay, so these are the experiments that
I ran.
1.9 E7. What
is 20 mil?
And we also have these
12 mil.
Well, these are definitely more solves
than before, right?
I'm pretty sure the only thing that I
did here differently was um
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Look at this. So,
we do this one.
This is like this super sketchy thing.
And if I do this one,
now we have lots They're
all like 12 mil. I believe
they've got sketchy curves, but good
evals. Not all of them even have sketchy
curves, honestly. These ones are good.
Okay, so
hey, Kinbert.
These forex faster. Exactly.
Oh, let me go check something for you to
see if this guy replied.
I don't know if he has yet.
I'm not great about checking Slack.
He has not replied yet. He probably will
though
from the thing that we discussed last
night.
Uh, okay. Okay. I mean, these are not
even that slow, right?
Like, we've got some pretty decent
curves in here.
I like these couple here, right? These
two are really nice.
Mhm. I got you.
I got you.
going to see if we make a little
progress on our sweeps work today.
I have
say Wednesday.
Technically I'm doing this until Sunday.
Um, but realistically the
Well, no, Sunday's going to suck.
But two more standard training days
before I get to eat food again.
I mean, this one's actually pretty good
looking, right? Like,
if we say this thing is pretty much
solved at 8 mil,
still considered to be like 2 mil by
normal.
Really? No. Wacky.
Ooh, that's wacky. Holy.
Uh, okay. Yeah, that's really wacky.
We will have to go see what the heck
that is.
Actually,
pretty much everything else is
reasonable. Just one crazy thing.
Well, we have something to work off of
though. This Let's make sure that we can
get our
Oh.
Uh,
yeah. This isn't good. The fact this
never gets to 20.
But this one,
the heck is this thing?
Why is this thing bad?
Taper fade.
Not really. I'd hope not.
I tell them explicitly never to do a
fade.
I think they did kind of cut it a little
close this time.
Dumb asses.
It's not really a fade though. It's not
bad.
I gotta say, I think I timed this whole
thing just about right because
I don't think I could do this toll
routine for another week without like
losing strength and speed and stuff.
It's like cutting it close.
I'm pretty much finishing up in uh
California as well. So,
I'm probably going to head out sometime
next Take
No. There's something weird with that,
isn't there?
Oh, maybe not.
Yeah, that's a solve.
So, that is honestly
really good.
Huh.
So that is a factor if you look at it
right. Um this is frame skip one. This
is the main thing. Oh, I didn't even do
we check envom ends
even check this
And this produces the way smoother
curve, right?
Hello. We are working on
uh compute data trade-off analysis.
We're trying to figure out
what needs to be done with Puffer to
make it handle high data and like not
super high data regimes. and to do this
like cleanly, relatively automatically
of this sort.
So, I'm confused why Adam beta 1 is an
absolutely insane value. If I just set
it back to the reasonable thing, does
this just crash
It doesn't crash it at least, but it's
way worse.
I have a group on Twitter I can ask
about this.
Prioritize replay is different as well.
learning rate. Everything is a bit
different.
Optimizer stuff is really the bizarre
thing.
Do we uh check this across? Let's check
this across M's real across typers real
quick.
If I just do this, Yes.
Okay. So, it is actually
there is a distribution over these.
Okay. So, maybe it's not insane.
Fine.
Should just not be super sensitive.
should be just variants that work for
everything. That's weird.
Very weird. Um
we'll do I think we can get this in 8
mil. Right.
If we get this in 8 mil, this is the
same as a one solve.
if it solves in
in a mill
because I had like crazy frame skip
before.
Yeah, it's already above 20 and six
mill. This is good.
This is a perfectly good result.
Can I go down to six and still have it
solve?
still works.
Worked. Is this just going to keep
going?
Ah, it doesn't look like it, right?
Not going to full self.
All right, so you need six mil.
That's not bad. That's a good start.
What are we working on? We are working
on
uh more hyper pram stuff. We're just
generally trying to figure out
um more data, less compute. Less data,
more compute. That trade-off
if I can automate the sweeping so that
we get the like the parameters along
that trade-off curve, we can basically
automate all the rest of the science we
need to do.
This is fine.
It only takes
six mil perm. So this is what
I think this is 20. No, eight.
This is 16x less data than we used
before.
Okay, this is so 16x less data
for
six about six times the amount of
compute.
That's not bad, right? That's not bad at
all. That's very good.
Okay. So the next thing is going to be
can we get our multi- sweep code
to handle this? And before I do that,
let me go because I forgot to do one
thing. I'll be back in like 30 seconds.
data is max total steps. Compute is the
amount of time in seconds it takes to
run the experiment
with our optimized implementation. You
could technically do flops,
but we're going to do compute and wall
clock.
Okay,
next thing is going to be to try to get
this to repro in our
new setting here.
I mean, wall clock is the practical
metric
for most core research.
You're way better off having optimized
wall clock and then try to optimize
sample app than the other way around,
let's say. Like way better off.
Make it a little easier on this thing.
Right.
What changes compute
model size? Uh number of updates.
Lots of different hypers affect compute.
Ah, it's a different hybrid.
This this
we're good with this. Yeah,
let's see if this multi sweep
works.
And then perhaps what I can do is I can
review some PRs
depending on how this goes cuz we
actually, you know, one really cool
thing about this project is there are
environments that I've kind of just
thought about and wanted somebody to
make for a while but I didn't tell
anybody. body and then I just look and
on GitHub people have made a bunch of
environments that I've just wanted for a
long time and have PR them. It's pretty
cool.
we are. So,
leave this alone.
Uh there are works on hyperparam
optimization.
There's substantially less work on it
for RL specifically.
Technically, it doesn't matter that much
actually if it's RL versus not with HBO.
There are a few differences.
I mean, you can check the blog post that
I have which is proteins based on MBUI's
carbs.
Holy.
Um,
I think this they did not mean to PR
this There.
Okay. Config
net
who is this actually?
This is someone from Discord, right?
I'm going to try this.
If things break, we will find out
quickly.
I'm fine with doing stuff like this
because like
I'm fine with doing this stuff cuz this
is like this cannot introduce horrific
hard to find bugs. Like if I go try this
and it breaks the build, I'll just fix
it.
Perfect. Everything in H C and H. Okay,
the FBR the way it works is the C file
is strictly for a standalone C demo.
So if you do like bash scripts build
ocean your end name fast or local it
builds that C file that C file doesn't
get touched with um the Python build.
Does that make sense?
If you go look at the if you go look at
like one of the sample ms knowing that
it'll make a lot more sense.
a standalone physics engine. And then
just have if you have if you want to
split it up for some reason, you can
have multiple.h files,
right?
I mean, I can easily check this thing,
Any
done. Um,
a bunch of these little tiny PRs. I'm
going to obviously check all of them,
but
changes.
We just start a review
Whack that the batch size up by 100x.
What?
There's something weird with this,
right?
See?
Yeah.
Oh, a nice policy.
Very good.
Training speed never high enough.
What is never high Enough.
Get to the main meat.
Why is this thing so long? We will see.
SPS.
um do you have enough cores for what
you're trying to do? You know, you can
have you can mess with it so you get
however many cores you have. You should
be able to get it pretty close to like
numb cores times speed per core.
Um, can you do this? Wait,
what happens if you put a comment after
pound define?
probably not running or would it be
used?
Well, have you tested to see if you're
getting benefits? Like our typical
multipprocessing back end, you don't
need to do multi-threading yourself.
If you had finished and PR any of these
M's, you know, like you'd have access to
one of our boxes by now and then you
wouldn't have this problem cuz our boxes
are way faster.
one like big chunky end is enough to get
access to a box or like a few, you know,
arcadey style ends.
If you do like one big like one chunky
M. Now, the code actually has to be like
good obviously.
I mean the main thing is just like keep
the damn code simple. Don't submit AI
generated crap and like don't over
complicate stuff.
production ready environment
using them just to troll a production
ready environment for puffer mash.
I honestly don't know half the time when
I'm dealing with like devs that have
been writing code for 15 years and devs
that have like been writing code for a
year or two. I just get I write the same
critique regardless and
Yeah. So, this is this is a little bit
over modularized. I would say it's not
terrible.
It's a little over modularized for my
tastes.
It's like simultaneously over and under,
I'd suppose.
Like the fact you have like stuff like
this inlined, but you're modularizing
stuff like this.
you can observe yourself.
Observe the ball XY VX Vy
and the opponent.
I wonder if I should start grading
environments.
I could start ranking environments
by how clean the code is.
I'd have to the only thing is I would
have to add something to the website,
right? It would only just be something
on the website.
I don't know. I'd probably rank them
like, you know, bronze, silver, gold,
plat or something. Diamond.
Bronze, silver, gold, plat, diamond.
hackathon for puff rams. Dude, that's
just every day.
Why don't you host a competition?
Because I hosted many of those during my
PhD and I've got PTSD from all the
organizational crap I had to do for
competitions. I could hold a game jam
type thing though.
I don't like everybody works on same
end.
but like I'm not going to delegate
ranking environments now, am I?
The only person I would trust to maybe
do that correctly would be like Spencer
because Spencer like started off
submitting some god-awful code and now
he writes really good code.
Like probably the worst in a couple of
the best environments uh in Puffer Lib
are both Spencers.
Oh yeah, Bet can definitely organize.
Bet definitely can't grade code though.
Like Bet's a relatively new programmer.
Maybe two years now.
Programming is hard. That [ __ ] just
takes forever to learn to do well.
Like honestly, learning to be a good
programmer without like an actually good
mentor is just awful. Like so so
freaking hard. And the thing is like
most of the teaching and like just most
of the information out there for
programmers is just horrible.
It's like the thing though with what I
do with puffers, it's actually very
simple to learn, right? Like if you just
listen to the feedback I give you on
stuff like on your code and like you at
least try it and then ask questions if
you're like well why would I do this or
whatever like you will go very far. You
might end up getting like so good that
you start disagreeing legitimately with
stuff, I tell you. But like at least
you'll get to that point, right? If
you're newer
and do this, I guess.
I hate the syntax, but it's okay.
Honestly, like
Python is a good first language.
There's a lot of just bad material
though out there in it.
But yeah, I definitely especially for
like younger
people. Yeah, Python's a
like younger people. Yeah, Python's a good first language.
good first language.
The one thing that's like really
annoying though is
um the I honestly find the ray Python
bindings harder to use than the native C
API.
Actually the so if you're going to do
graphics
the C style API for RayB and Python is
not bad. There are two different APIs.
There's like Ray and there's Pyray. The
Pyray one is really bad.
The C style API that's a lot closer to
what the CC code looks like is actually
better and it's more stable as well
because like you don't have to do these
weird like you don't have to like come
up with weird objects for stuff, right?
Like things just work with tpples and
lists and the data structures you'd
expect.
I'd give this one like a silver if I
were rating environments.
for 240 LP. Hey, that's higher than my
than I am in League. All right,
I am hard stuck bronze.
Literally the only way I'm getting out
of there is if everyone stops banning
Lux.
Uh, the only games I am very good at are
MMOs.
Look, I just have feet for hands. Okay,
that's it.
Yeah, but the thing is it's very hard to
maximize value when you like are below
the minimum required mechanical skill.
That's the hard thing with games.
There's a minimum mechanical skill
requirement, right?
Like I literally had a game with a
Thresh support that just kept chucking
his lantern at the enemy like it was an
attack.
and runs fast where you still consider
it bad code.
Oh, there are tons of those, right? If
anything, that's like the most common
case.
I mean, the the best one of those is
like triple triad, right? First M
Spencer submitted.
It's fast, but it's like quad pointer
nonsense. That whole thing could be a
fraction of the length that it is.
This here, right? Like this is probably
fast, but this is like a silver.
top three to five mistakes.
Uh, if you just mean pure style
mistakes,
uh, splitting out crap you don't need to
split out.
um
redundant deep nested logic like not
like you know if X if Y if Z instead of
like if not X return if not Y. So like
redundant nesting of logic and then not
using temp variables to make uh like not
using temporary variables to uh reduce
like big checks and like big blocks of
conditionals and stuff like that into
something more readable.
I'm going to do one more. I think I'm
going to do I don't think overcook's
going to be too long, right? Yeah, this
is too long.
104.
Wait, what the hell is this? Just going
to be graphics.
Yeah, it's graphics.
But still, this is going to be too long
for me to review right now.
Rewards in the config.
Um, so if you have a reward function
with multiple components,
then it should like the component
waiting should probably be configurable
so that you can sweep them.
Unless you are reproducing like an
existing end that has a fixed reward
structure, then it doesn't need to be
Okay, fair critique. Not the solution,
but fair critique.
Is this thing done? Is Kin here? Is this
thing done?
Oh,
pretty.
I like this
fuel.
How the hell do you need this many?
Define done. Well, I want to know how
the hell you need this many different
reward coefficients to make this thing
work.
uh if it seems to behave worse in the
pure C then the network is different.
There's a difference between the network
how it's being executed in C and not
So that's reasonable stuff to you. But
like, how is this environment that hard?
You should see the hackathon one
still pretty bad. What do you mean?
That's different. Isn't the stuff you're
doing for hackathons very different,
right?
I've looked at your code before, right?
I think I have. I think your code's
usually pretty good.
Oh, then you probably have it at like
way too high FPS. Convert
Yo, Kvert. Why are these all float
stars?
Multiple targets.
Uh, target X, target Y. Okay, I see
that's fine Man,
Well, Jess, one of the uh the main
things in my programming guide
It literally says don't use cursor.
[Music]
Get rid of Prince before merge. Okay.
Well, I'll do I'll go through and like
I'll look at this here at least since
this one's actually pretty chill to look
through.
Like the gestalt of this overall is
good. This is like, yes, you actually
[ __ ] listened to the uh, you know, or
read like other M's and the way we do
them and attempted to match it. This is
good.
Even forgive the inline if statements
There
Well,
not having shitty AI be part of your
dayto-day is better than having it.
So,
it's better in that sense.
You're perfectly free to come over to uh
to Neoimland if you want as well. That's
not remotely required, mind you.
The only thing I say is don't use an AI
first editor.
aesthetics.
You're telling me you don't have any of
the actual cursor AI stuff on.
If you don't actually have any of the AI
stuff on, then fine.
No, it's literally a fork of VS Code. Of
course, it's going to be basically the
same.
[Music]
I don't know. I use Sublime for a bit.
It's
If you're going to use something minimal
anyways, you may as well have it run in
your terminal.
It's really nice not to have to do
anything extra to have your whole dev
environment just work over SSH. H.
Hey, Wayne. I started a few and then
I've been doing a couple little PR
reviews.
wrong with my code. just tried playing
against it myself and watched the AS
queen jump over a pawn like a knight.
Yeah, well that is why we use games
because you can play them.
Video recommended time to remake and
puffer. You absolutely can. I would go
with the Madrona.
That would actually be a very impressive
thing if you did. Um I wouldn't
necessarily go off of their original
source. I would look at the the Madrona
version of the EN. I think you could
totally get like a million step per
second version of that in Puffer. If you
could actually replicate that paper,
that would be a really big thing.
about on your 4090. No, I mean like just
the end speed of a million steps per
second
on one core. You should be able to have
the end be that fast. It's really basic
physics.
Does it make sense 2D FBR? It's
I guess it does except for the ramps.
yeah, pretty good end.
Um
fix the what is it?
Oh yeah, there's nothing really to even
fix. Like yeah, let me know if this is
ready and I will I'll get this merged
in.
Maybe recolor it so it's not so
blindingly bright.
Otherwise, it's good.
All right, let's go see what um
got over here.
What the heck?
Yeah.
What did I do?
Wasn't supposed to go like this.
I mean, it freaking It runs.
What's happening?
Why is it
That doesn't make any sense to me.
dark mode is just nighttime.
We kind of have a vibe to the puffer
thing, right? We kind of have like a
vibe for most of our M's.
Mostly blue kind of Tron when we need a
second color.
Why are all these steps like this? So
weird.
Just like super weird.
Oh, it must have been timeout, right?
Would
that make sense
that it like timed out?
It would, right?
I was going to do 10 mil time steps and
lo and behold the 10 mil's over here.
Uh this is actually a good result
because this is a 4 mil.
We could simply um
go grab these hypers and see if they
work, right?
If I can do that real quick. I'm so
hungry.
There we go.
Way nicer, right? And this
Holy, look at this. Niny batches is
four.
Oh, actually not bad. It's uh it's like
one sample reuse. Okay.
Ray the atoms
actually. Did we get a reply to this?
This is supposed to be a 4 million step
solver.
Let's see.
Uh, hello Spencer. Um,
I would have to hop off of the stream.
Let me think.
Is like in an hour good?
I'm kind of just finishing up all these
experiments and stuff so we get some
progress on our hyper pram stuff today.
Oh yeah, I forget there's a time change.
Wait, my bad. That's going to be like at
a stupid hour for you, isn't it? That's
going to be like right during dinner.
Um,
Yeah, that's the right paper. Uh, the
ETU one. Yeah, I can do now, Spencer.
That's fine. It's probably a fine thing
to do now. So, folks, I'm gonna go chat
with Spencer for a bit about some work
stuff. Uh, I might come back for like an
hour stream. I might not. We'll see.
But, uh,
folks have been tuning in
the repo. All the codes here. Oh, look.
3.4K
puffing up. uh join Discord if you want
to get involved.